---
title: "EWS generated object models for Exchange"
 
 
manager: sethgros
ms.date: 9/17/2015
ms.audience: Developer
 
 
localization_priority: Normal
ms.assetid: 67d7d831-9c53-46da-80e4-18f562e71284
description: "If you're using the EWS generated object model reference to develop applications for Exchange, find out about other options for EWS development."
---

# EWS generated object models for Exchange

If you're using the EWS generated object model reference to develop applications for Exchange, find out about other options for EWS development. 
  
The Exchange Web Services (EWS) object model generated by wsdl.exe initially provided a convenient object model for working with Exchange 2007. However, when the EWS Managed API became available, it introduced a number of advantages for developers who are working with managed code. The EWS Managed API:
  
- Provides a more intuitive object model.
    
- Contains client-side business logic and data validation.
    
- Is fully supported and updated regularly.
    
- Contains an Autodiscover client.
    
- Implements client features such as logging, cookie management, and diagnostic reporting back to Exchange.
    
The EWS wsdl.exe-based managed reference documentation has been retired because the EWS Managed API replaces most of the functionality provided by generated object models. At the same time, we know that the EWS managed API is not for everyone. Most of the time, it's the best way to create EWS clients for .NET, but there are some exceptions; for example:
  
- When functionality that you might want to use [is not implemented in the EWS Managed API](web-service-api-feature-availability-in-exchange-and-the-ews-managed-api.md#bk_apifeatures).
    
- When you are using a development platform other than .NET.
    
If you can't use the EWS Managed API to develop your application, you can:
  
- Use a [third-party EWS client API](http://curah.microsoft.com/56807/ews-client-libraries). 
    
- Create your own EWS client object model. 
    
- Use an object model generator. You can expect to find object model generators to support most major platform and languages.
    
If you plan to use an object model generator, you can use the [XML reference](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/2a873474-1bb2-4cb1-a556-40e8c4159f4a%28Office.15%29.aspx) to help you understand the generated object model. The object model is generated from the XML structures that are described in the schema. Typically, the classes created by object model generators map to the complex types in the schema. Properties typically map to the XML elements. 
  
## See also

- [Web services reference for Exchange](../web-service-reference/web-services-reference-for-exchange.md)
- [Explore the EWS Managed API, EWS, and web services in Exchange](explore-the-ews-managed-api-ews-and-web-services-in-exchange.md)     
- [What's new in EWS and other web services in Exchange](whats-new-in-ews-and-other-web-services-in-exchange.md)  
- [Add a Reference to a Web Service](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb628649.aspx)
    

